are you receiving backlash from not
being vegan and how are you handling it
[Music]
I'm gonna go out on a limb here and say
that Eden Jack's I think the lady doth
protest too much although she insists
although she protests that she believes
in body positivity although she insists
that she believes in being healthy in
any way I think that Eden Jack's deep
down inside I think she really did
commit to the vegan diet on a basis of
vanity on the the thought the hope the
yearning that somehow this ideologies
could fix her there's something broken
with her there's something wrong there's
something missing that makes her eat
these ludicrous quantities of food and
if only she could get it under control
and be a better person and stop being
broken deep down inside she could lose
weight look great feel great and she
could also be a positive story of
transformation like so many others that
are out there on the Internet
and you know it never did work for her
and I also want to let you guys know
just because I respect you in this
community so much that I'm not vegan as
of recent and I'm super confident in my
decision I worked with a registered
dietician I'm not gonna go too much into
it because as we've always said to you
guys especially in the plus-sized
community people always want to have you
prove your health to them but your
health is really your business and you
should always do what's best for you and
I really won't be sharing much more on
the subject the reason being is the more
you share the more well-meaning but
unsolicited guidance and opinions you
get and the only guidance that I'm
seeking is the guidance of my registered
dietician that I've been working with
over the past ten months
we're all doing this life thing for the
first time we're not all kind of get it
right all of the time we're not always
going to be perfect not everything in
your life is going to work out and not
everything in your life is going to be
permanent and the only difference
between me and you is I'm sharing it and
that's just like magnified times a
hundred there was a time when the number
one debate tarring vegan youtube apart
was about vanity wasn't it a great and
wonderful thing to have a vegan movement
predicated on vanity feeding on human
vanity profiting from you and vanity
wasn't it the greatest thing ever that
freelee the banana girl was getting 12
million views a month not motivated by
veganism not motivated by an interest in
animal rights ethics ecology no she was
getting millions of views per month by
promising people that they could eat
unlimited calories and lose weight look
great blah blah blah right and all kinds
of people who are now morbidly obese
were pulled into the orbit of this kind
of de based ideology veganism predicated
on many including nikka cada avocado
current body weight 299 pounds the he
was boasting he's just gonna pray 300
pounds morbidly obese the cacao avocados
boyfriend Orlin and I'm gonna go out on
a limb here and say that Eden Jack's
I think the lady doth protest too much
although she insists although she
protests that she believes in body
positivity although she insists that she
believes in being healthy in any way I
think that Eden Jack's deep down inside
I think she really did commit to the
vegan diet on a basis of vanity on the
the thought the hope the yearning that
somehow this ideologies vix her there's
something broken with her there's
something wrong there's something
missing that makes her eat these
ludicrous quantities of food and if only
she could get in under control and be a
better person and stop being broken deep
down inside she could lose weight look
great feel great and she could also be a
positive story of transformation like
many others that are out there on the
internet and you know it never did work
for her vanity it's such a morally
uplifting force in our lives right guys
and I was one of the very few people I
mean to Ozzie I felt like I was the only
person on YouTube saying to people again
and again five years ago this is not
going to last
this whole cult and culture of vanity
and weight loss and miracle diets this
is not going to build a political
movement that's still gonna be around
five years from now five years have come
and gone I was talking to an old friend
colleague who knew me five six seven
years ago he used to have a youtube
channel and he was reminiscing about all
the other youtubers who hated me and who
criticized his channel for being
influenced by my channel and they
specifically hated the fact that I just
dared to raise this kind of question you
know like I often raise those people in
a positive constructive way I asked them
where do you think you're gonna be five
years from now what is it you want to be
doing in the movement with the movement
for the movement five years ago just
think ahead five years so we can think
positively about where it is we're going
then we can build the road to get there
or something and none of those people
wanted to do it they all respond to that
so negatively they hated me they hated
my videos they hated my content because
what they wanted to do was cheerlead
then one of the cheerlead for the lose
weight feel great vanity vegan side of
the game they also wanted to cheerlead
for all kinds of stuff that just happens
to make money like you know disruptions
and street activism and going to petting
zoos and photographing yourself next to
a cow that lives its whole life in a
cage and you say isn't it wonderful that
this cow was liberated and that it's
free and it's so happy to be in this
petting zoo instead of having its throat
slit in a farm and this makes a lot of
sense guys yeah yeah yeah I'm you know
there's this whole range of kind of
hackneyed trite overly familiar vegan
memes that are performed here on YouTube
again and again by vegans for an
audience of vegans where it's vegans
preaching to the converted but
pretending we're doing education
outreach because it earns money
right this kind of content those people
five years ago they all hated me they
hated my YouTube content so intestine
and this this colleague of mine was
saying he knows at different circle of
people than I know but he said you know
now when he looks around at those people
it says five years later where are they
what happened to them
a whole lot of them closed down their
YouTube channels a whole lot of them
lost faith in veganism lost faith in
activism and a significant number have
gone back to eating meat dairy and eggs
coincidentally a lot of them got married
got pregnant got somebody else pregnant
had kids there were other kind of grow
vidiq forces that pull people into the
orbit of being a middle-aged conformist
and suddenly you know the idea of
running away to Thailand and filming
yourself in a bikini and showing off how
much weight you lost just seems less
appealing for those reasons and suddenly
the idea of being arrested while cool
heroically unquote protesting in the
street or making an ass of yourself
breaking off that seems less appealing
just just because of those middle-aged
conformist forces start to come into
your life and you become a member of the
parent-teacher Association and worry
about these kinds of respectable things
yeah and you know what veganism built on
vanity it didn't last
it wasn't durable from the movement it
wasn't even durable as like an
entertaining genre of YouTube videos and
I look at someone like Eden Jax and I
see her as like the ultimate victim of
this mentality right she bought it she
believed in it she preached it I think
for seven years she never got the
results not even on the smallest scale
of her own body her own life she
obviously didn't get the results in
terms of cultivating any kind of
superior ethical character or
intellectual character jobs he never
developed some kind of sophisticated
understanding of the ecological
arguments or even the health arguments
why you shouldn't be eating chicken eggs
you okay she comes out of this
seven-year period of being vegan just as
ignorant and just as
emotionally broken down and she was in
the way in right she comes out just as
much of a kind of useless basket case
she comes out if we're being although I
real she must come out just as afraid
about her life when you're as morbidly
obese as she is
you don't just worry about what you look
like in the mirror you worry about how
many years you've got left on this
planet you worry about how long it is
until a heart attack diabetes stroke
hypertension until these things catch up
with you and you wonder maybe even
before death becomes an issue you wonder
about whether or not you're gonna be
able to walk up a staircase with an
aren't you gonna be able to walk up the
side of a hill those sorts of things
start to loom so this is someone who
came into veganism yearning for a better
life yearning to be a better person but
never forget that ethical engagement
itself he is a kind of vanity for a lot
of people right feeling like a good
person feeling like you're Ethel a
spirit others that also is connected to
vanity and now mysteriously Eden Jack's
attributes this to her dietitian I doubt
that's the real force for change here
mysteriously she gets her tattoo her
vegan tattoo covered up or removed she
meets a man she's talking about getting
pregnant and raising kids
we have those forces bringing her into
mainstream middle-aged conformist
Society won't once again that she seems
to be willing to part with the vanity
and the sense of ethical superiority
that I guess veganism brought in through
life and she's going to do that in a
context where or the vegan diet for her
never got those magical promised results
I can relate to eating Jack's not
because I'm 200 pounds overweight but
because I used to be a member of the
Buddhist religion and it wasn't just a
religion for me I did research I did
humanitarian work I went out and lived
in Cambodia I rode my bicycle to
ancient archaeological sites you know I
studied the ancient language I read
stone inscriptions and palm leaf
manuscripts
I studied the contemporary history and
the ancient history and you saw the
links between them Buddhism was
something much more meaningful in my
life than it is for the average
superstitious Buddhist who actually
believes they can communicate with the
ghost of their deceased grandparents I
never believed that kind of supernatural
horseshit but the stuff I was engaged
with be it humanitarian work history
books archaeological sites etc that was
a tremendously meaningful tremendously
motivating part of my life and when it
ended when Buddhism ceased to be a part
of my life sure you could feel the cold
breeze blowing through the room Wow I
used to have all this motivation and all
this interest and all this stuff going
on and now it's gone alright so I I do
sympathize the in Jackson I think that
for her the loss of veganism is probably
much more devastating than the loss of
Buddhism was for me all right because I
already had a lot going on before I got
involved Buddhism I Locke long after I
left Buddhism a lot of things that my
sense of motivation and moral purpose in
life could be based on without relying
on Buddhism when I look at eat in Jax I
look at somebody who apart from veganism
has absolutely nothing positive in her
life as absolutely nothing good going
for and now that she's taking this step
she gets to live her life with that
absolute nothingness